Update for vector search index in 5.13 (#722)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/indexes-for-vector-search.adoc

:l2-norm: image:l2.svg["l2"]-norm

[[indexes-vector]]
= Vector search index

> _Vector search indexes were released as a public beta in Neo4j 5.11, and general availability in Neo4j 5.13._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Vector search indexes were released as a public beta in Neo4j 5.11 and general availability in Neo4j 5.13._
```

| `SHOW INDEXES WHERE type = "VECTOR"`
| Lists all vector indexes, see the xref:indexes-for-search-performance.adoc#indexes-list-indexes[`SHOW INDEXES`] command for details. There is no vector index filter built into `SHOW INDEXES`.

| Set vector property.
| {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`]

> | label:beta[] Update a given node property with the given vector in a more space-efficient way than directly using xref:clauses/set.adoc#set-set-a-property[`SET`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| label:beta[] label:new[Introduced in 5.13] Update a given node property with the given vector in a more space-efficient way than directly using xref:clauses/set.adoc#set-set-a-property[`SET`]. Replaces  {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`].
```

| Set vector property.
| {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`]

> | label:beta[] label:deprecated[] Please use {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`]

Reviewer: We try to avoid using "please" in the docs.
```suggestion
| label:beta[] label:deprecated[] It is replaced by {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`]
```

======

[role=beta]
[[indexes-vector-set]]
== Set a vector property on a node

Valid vectors for use in the index must have components finitely representable in {ieee-754} _single_ precision.

> They are represented as properties on nodes with type `LIST<FLOAT>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are represented as properties on nodes with the type `LIST<FLOAT>`.
```

> The recommended way of setting a vector property is using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`] procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Neo4j 5.13, you can set a vector property using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`] procedure.
```

> This _beta_ procedure validates the input and sets the property as an array of {ieee-754} single precision values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It validates the input and sets the property as an array of {ieee-754} single precision values.
This beta procedure replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`].
```

.Signature for `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`
[source,syntax]
----
db.create.setNodeVectorProperty(node :: NODE, key :: STRING, vector :: LIST<FLOAT>)
----

.Signature for `db.create.setVectorProperty` label:deprecated[]
[source,syntax]
----
db.create.setVectorProperty(node :: NODE, key :: STRING, vector :: LIST<FLOAT>) :: (node :: NODE)
----

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: I would suggest removing this note.

Reviewer 2: Is it clear enough without it?

Reviewer: Same here, I added it as part of the text. See line 279.

====
As of Neo4j 5.13 {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`] is _deprecated_ and has been replaced by {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`].
====

> Usually you want to define your embeddings as Cypher parameters and call `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty` as in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to define embeddings as Cypher parameters by matching a node and setting its vector properties using `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`:
```

.Set a vector via `db.create.setVectorProperty`
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (n:Node {id: $id})
CALL db.create.setNodeVectorProperty(n, 'propertyKey', $vector)
RETURN node
----

> The example above matches one node and updates its embedding, but it's also possible to use a list parameter containing several `MATCH` criteria and embeddings, to update multiple nodes in an `UNWIND` clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, you can also use a list parameter containing several `MATCH` criteria and embeddings to update multiple nodes in an `UNWIND` clause.
```

Reviewer: Could it be possible to provide an example?

Reviewer 2: I believe @michael-simons added that section in #745

From my understanding of what he wrote, it's just normal cypher usage that a independent of the procedures.

My personal cypher knowledge is quite minimal, so I don't quite get _exactly_ what Michael was getting at here. Perhaps he has some input can could provide an example?

Reviewer 2: It seems @michael-simons is on leave until Monday 16th.
I don't know what you want to do about this @renetapopova …perhaps this is ok for now, and further clarification could be added in a later PR?

Reviewer: I agree, we can add an example later.

This is ideal for creating and setting new vector properties in the graph.

> You can also set a vector property on a node using the xref:clauses/set.adoc#set-set-a-property[`SET`] command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set a vector property on a node using the xref:clauses/set.adoc#set-set-a-property[`SET`] command as in the following example:
```

----
MATCH (node:Node {id: $id})
SET node.propertyKey = $vector
RETURN node
----

> However, Cypher stores the provided `LIST<FLOAT>` as a primitive array of {ieee-754} _double_ precision values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Cypher stores the provided `LIST<FLOAT>` as a primitive array of {ieee-754} _double_ precision values. 
This takes up almost twice as much space compared to the alternative method, where you use the `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty` procedure.
As a result, using `SET` for a vector index is not recommended. 

To reduce the storage space, you can reset the existing properties using `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`. 
However, this comes with the cost of an increase in the transaction log size until they are rotated away.
```

> As a result, it takes up approximately twice as much space and it's not recommended for properties that are used in a vector index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Existing properties can be re-set using `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty` to minimize store size, but there is a cost in the transaction log size until they are rotated away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: This might be important to still note in some way, shape or form, as people who are using the procedure would be concerned with space; and then may be quite surprised to see that (at least for a while) the total disk spaced used increases by quite a bit.

Reviewer 2: If you have an alternative suggestion or rough idea which may be a better approach to express this, I'd be grateful, as I agree it doesn't sit right in its current state.

Reviewer: I added it as part of the text and removed it here. But if you think it's not visible enough, I can take another look.

Reviewer 2: Sorry @renetapopova I completely missed that. The diff didn't make it clear to me; however, I can see it clear as day when looking at the rendered page!

[[index-vector-issues]]
== Known issues

> The vector search index is was a beta feature until Neo4j 5.13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Neo4j 5.13, the vector search index is no longer a beta feature.
```

> The below table lists the known issues in its implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the known issues and the version in which they were fixed:
```

[%header,cols="5a,d"]

> |===

Reviewer: I would suggest that we start with the latest version on top.
